Job Category
Faculty Bargaining

Job Title
Assistant Professor, Tenure Track

Department
Department of Medicine | Faculty of Medicine | Provost and VP Academic (Anita Palepu)

Posting End Date
November 24, 2021

Note: Applications will be accepted until 11:59 PM on the day prior to the Posting End Date above.

The Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine at The University of British Columbia (UBC) invites applications for a full-time faculty position at the rank of Assistant Professor (tenure track). The successful applicant will hold an academic faculty position at UBC, an investigator position at the Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health, and a clinical role with the Vancouver Stroke Program at Vancouver General Hospital.

The UBC Department of Medicine provides excellence in research, teaching and clinical services related to the nature, cause and prevention of adult diseases. We are the largest Department in the Faculty of Medicine with over 1,200 faculty and staff. The Department is comprised of 18 divisions with faculty located throughout the Province of British Columbia. The UBC Department of Medicine is committed to ensuring the success of our learners and faculty, and to contributing to the health of the Province of British Columbia.

The UBC Division of Neurology is one of the largest divisions within the Department of Medicine, and spans many activities in clinical, research and educational spheres. It is nationally and internationally recognized for its clinical and research programs in stroke, multiple sclerosis, neurodegenerative disorders including dementias, motor neuron disease, and Parkinson’s disease. The Division of Neurology is consistently successful in obtaining peer reviewed grant funding from agencies in Canada and internationally. Divisional members make important contributions to both basic neuroscience and clinical neurological literature. Clinically, the division provides province-wide tertiary and quaternary care for a variety of neurological disorders. The Division has clinical outreach to many communities around the province, including Kitimat, Queen Charlotte, Masset & Whitehorse and Yukon. Faculty members are actively involved in teaching and supervising all levels of students and trainees from undergraduate to postgraduate students, clinical and research fellows. The Residency Training Program in Neurology is the one of the largest in the country.

Reporting to the Head of the UBC Department of Medicine and the Head of the Division of Neurology, the successful candidate will have training in neurology and subspecialty training in stroke medicine, cerebrovascular preventative medicine and/or stroke rehabilitation. As a faculty member within the Department of Medicine and the Division of Neurology, the successful candidate will be expected to develop a strong, externally funded and internationally competitive program of research.

The incumbent will have a particular interest in clinical applications of data science and novel integration of multimodal data sources to develop personalized treatment strategies in stroke prevention, treatment and/or rehabilitation. The successful candidate is expected to lead a collaborative program of research that capitalizes and builds upon provincial collaborations between the Department of Medicine and the Data Science Institute as well as PopData BC, the BC Support Unit, PHSA and the Digital Supercluster. The successful candidate will find a welcoming and interdisciplinary environment for productive collaborations applying data science and/or computational methodology to clinical challenges in stroke.

In addition to participating in the teaching activities of the Department, the successful candidate will contribute to novel educational planning related to clinical applications of data science. This includes sustainable CPD programming and opportunities to contribute to coursework in artificial intelligence in Experimental Medicine, the new undergraduate major in Neuroscience and/or the School of Biomedical Engineering. The incumbent will have the opportunity to recruit trainees from multiple graduate programs, including but not limited to Neuroscience, Bioinformatics, Experimental Medicine, Biomedical Engineering, Computer Science and the School of Population and Public Health. The candidate will also have access to mentor clinical trainees and supervise research at multiple levels of training including medical undergraduates, residents and postgraduate fellows.

The successful candidate will hold an MD, will have completed an adult neurology residency and post-graduate clinical training in stroke, and will hold a graduate degree in a related discipline. The candidate must be eligible for registration and licensure in neurology by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia through the full registration program. The incumbent will have an emerging track record in novel clinical applications of data science for stroke prevention, treatment and/or rehabilitation, as demonstrated by a strong record of publications and presentations and competitive recognitions in the field. They will have demonstrated evidence of ability in teaching and will be expected to participate in the undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate teaching activities of the Department. The incumbent will also be expected to provide service to the University and the broader academic and professional community.

Salary will be commensurate with qualifications and experience. Dedicated funding will be available to initiate the incumbent’s independent program of research, and access to exceptional platforms for data science and population health research. A letter of application outlining the applicant’s scholarly, professional and teaching interests, accompanied by a detailed curriculum vitae, teaching dossier and the names of three references should be directed to:

Yvonne Ng

Administrative Manager, UBC Division of Neurology

Email: Yvonne.ng@vch.ca

Subject Line: Stroke Clinician-Data Scientist Position (Neurology)

Review of applications will begin on December 1, 2021 and continue until the position is filled. The anticipated start date for this position is July 1, 2022 or upon a date to be mutually agreed.

The University of British Columbia is a global centre for research and teaching, consistently ranked among the top 20 public universities in the world. Since 1915, UBC’s entrepreneurial spirit has embraced innovation and challenged the status quo. UBC encourages its students, staff and faculty to challenge convention, lead discovery and explore new ways of learning. At UBC, bold thinking is given a place to develop into ideas that can change the world.

Our Vision: To Transform Health for Everyone.

Ranked among the world’s top medical schools with the fifth-largest MD enrollment in North America, the UBC Faculty of Medicine is a leader in both the science and the practice of medicine. Across British Columbia, more than 12,000 faculty and staff are training the next generation of doctors and health care professionals, making remarkable discoveries, and helping to create the pathways to better health for our communities at home and around the world.

The Faculty - comprised of approximately 2,200 administrative support, technical/research and management and professional staff, as well approximately 650 full-time academic and over 10,000 clinical faculty members - is composed of 19 academic basic science and/or clinical departments, three schools, and 24 research centres and institutes. Together with its University and Health Authority partners, the Faculty delivers innovative programs and conducts research in the areas of health and life sciences. Faculty, staff and trainees are located at university campuses, clinical academic campuses in hospital settings and other regionally based centres across the province.
